[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
How many times have we
read inspirational books
or attended seminars
that offer profound
information and felt
all aglow, for a
little while anyway,
only to return to
our usual self?
By this time, you probably
feel you've wasted your money
and time because you couldn't
apply the information.
Well, there's a good
reason for that.
Your subconscious, which runs
95% of your life experience,
has its own habitual agenda.
It can't be changed by simply
introducing new information.
It has to be deeply
reprogrammed,
which is something
we can all do.
Doctor Joe Dispenza
is with us today
to tell us the mechanics
of how to truly
have a shot at becoming
the person we want to be.
No New Age wishful
thinking here.
That's what I love
about your work.
It's so good to see
you again, Dr. Joe.
>>JOE DISPENZA:
Happy to be with you.
>>REGINA: It's been five years!
>>DISPENZA: I know.
>>REGINA: Do you mind?
I talked to you off camera.
And you already said it's OK.
So this isn't what
I would normally do.
But I want to start by reading
a paragraph in your book
because it sets up a context for
everything else, in my opinion.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: OK.
So it says here on page 102,
"If the quantum model of reality
ultimately defines
everything as energy,
why do we experience
ourselves more
as physical beings
than beings of energy?
We could say that the
survival-oriented emotions,
emotions or energy
in motion, are
low-frequency or
low-energy emotions.
They vibrate at a
slower wavelength
and, therefore, ground
us into being physical.
We become denser, heavier,
and more corporeal
because that energy causes
us to vibrate more slowly.
The body quite literally
becomes composed
of more mass and less energy,
more matter, less mind."
And so, people are saying,
what do you mean mind?
You were just
talking about energy.
And so, I would love for you
to take off and just give us
a little primer on why this
is central to everything
else we do and you do.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
I mean, living in survival
is living in stress.
And stress is when your body
is knocked out of homeostasis.
Stress is when your body
is knocked out of balance.
The stress response is
what our body naturally
does to return
itself back to order.
And we have different
types of stresses.
We have physical
stresses like accidents
or injuries or traumas or falls.
We have chemical stresses
like viruses and bacteria
and hangovers and blood sugar
levels and hormones in foods.
And we have emotional stresses
like traffic jams and internet
connections and second
mortgages and single parenting
and 401(k)s.
In every one of those
things-- physical, chemical,
or emotional-- the body
responds by turning
on a primitive nervous system.
And that primitive
nervous system
is called the "fight or
flight" nervous system.
And when we are
experiencing a threat
in our external environment,
we mobilize an enormous amount
of energy to protect the body
in its external environment.
Now, those hormones of
stress, those chemicals,
produce a rush of energy.
And that rush of
energy wakes us up
to be more present
with three things.
We become focused on our bodies.
We become focused
on the environment.
And we become focused on time.
Now, all organisms in nature
can handle short-term stress.
A zebra gets chased
by a lion, 15 minutes
goes back to grazing, and the
body returns back to balance.
But human beings are
a little different.
When we turn on the
stress response,
we can turn it on
by thought alone.
We can begin to think
about some future event.
We can begin to anticipate
some worst-case scenario.
We can begin to expect something
to happen in our future
based on our past.
And we make thought more
real than anything else.
And the body
physiologically changes
as if that future
event is happening.
And we experience the
stress of that future event.
By the same means, we can unfold
the past bitter memory that's
tattooed in the recesses
of our gray matter
and, like magic,
it comes to life.
And in that moment, it's real.
And the body as the
unconscious mind
does not know the difference
between the actual experience
that produces the
emotions and the emotions
that we fabricate
by thought alone.
So the hormones of
stress, then, then
begin to push the genetic
buttons that create disease.
It's a scientific fact.
And no organism in nature is
designed for long-term stress.
So when you and I are living
under the gun of the fight
or flight nervous system, we're
mobilizing all of this energy.
The rush of energy
becomes highly addictive.
>>REGINA: Yes.
This becomes almost an
across the board type
of reaction on the whole
spectrum of emotions
from positive to
negative, right?
>>DISPENZA: Right.
But the survival
emotions give the body
that rush of energy like
a triple cappuccino.
And we begin to subconsciously
or unconsciously associate
the problems and the
conditions in our life
to reaffirm our emotional
addiction so that we
can remember who we think
we are as a somebody.
So we keep the problems
and the circumstances
in our life to
reaffirm how we want
to feel based on that emotion.
Now, the emotions of anger,
of hatred, of aggression,
of competition, of control,
of fear, of anxiety, of guilt,
of shame, of insecurity,
of unworthiness,
of fear-- all of those
emotions, those emotions
are the emotions driven
by the hormones of stress.
And those emotions, then, cause
the ego to become selfish.
We become self-indulgent,
self-centered, self-serving,
self-aggrandizing.
It's all about the self.
Now, when the zebra is
being chased by the lion,
she's only concerned
about three things.
I got to take care of this body.
Where in my environment
am I going to run?
And how much time do
I have to get there?
So the body, the
environment, and time.
And when you and I live
by those lower emotions
that I just talked about, we
begin to identify ourselves
as a body in this
environment and time.
We're concerned about
our bodies, what
we look like, what
our faces look like,
our wardrobe, the things
that we have in our life,
the things we don't
own, our problems.
We obsess about time.
We become over focused
on these things.
And in a sense, when those
hormones of stress are running,
we become materialists.
We begin to try to define
reality through our senses.
Now, this is where we become
more matter and less energy,
because we become materialists.
And if the atom is 99.99999%
energy and possibility,
we're focusing on the particle,
the 0.00001% of reality.
And we're missing out
on a lot of potentials.
>>REGINA: And so let's talk
about how you correlate, then,
energy to mind.
Because that whole
paragraph spoke
of energy, energy, energy.
Now you say, more
matter, less mind.
>>DISPENZA: Mm-hmm.
Well, if you think about
it, quantum physics
says that your
subjective mind has
an effect on the
objective world,
that mind and matter are
co-related, their co-mingled.
But if you're trying
to change your life
by the emotions of
survival, your functioning
is more matter and less mind, so
you have no control or dominion
over anything in your
life because you're
vibrating at the
same frequency--
>>REGINA: Very low frequency.
>>DISPENZA: --as matter.
So you exert very little
influence on the outcome.
So now, when you and I are
in the creative state, when
you and I are truly
focused on creating,
this amazing thing happens.
We forget about ourselves.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: We become
nobody, no thing, no time.
We become pure consciousness.
We become pure mind.
And that's the moment
we walk through the door
to the quantum field.
We no longer are
focusing on the particle.
Now we're focusing
on possibility.
And when an observer takes its
attention off the particle,
it turns into energy
and information.
So if you and I are
observing our life
from the same level of
mind every single day,
we keep infinite
patterns of information
collapsed into the same
reality called our life.
So then, in order for you to
change something on your body,
change something in
your environment,
or change some future time, you
have to forget about your body.
You have to forget
about your environment.
You have to forget about time.
You have to become selfless.
So going from
selfish to selfless
means we have to lay down
the very thing we used
our whole life to get
what we want for something
greater to happen.
And that requires, then,
dissociating and disconnecting
from our environment,
our body, and time.
And it requires, then,
taking our attention
off the emotions that
reaffirm the addiction that
keeps us human.
>>REGINA: Indeed.
So beautifully put.
And I see these patterns
with some people
I know quite well, where there
is, maybe, one element of life
that is not certain.
And so, they'll go into a
survival mode that becomes
this... it's a
loop-- good people.
It doesn't allow them
to take their eye
off the ball of their own
reality, to become selfless.
And it becomes very
self-obsessive.
>>DISPENZA: Well, the
peopel who-- you can always
tell a person who is
struggling with those emotions,
because they'll only
talk about themselves.
It's never about you.
They can't think greater
than how they feel.
As a matter of fact, feelings
become the means of thinking.
And what they don't
know that they're doing
is they're creating a thought
that produces an emotion that's
addictive that causes them to
think equal to how they feel.
And they create
a state of being.
Now, it's a scientific fact
that the chemicals of stress
disregulate and down-regulate
genes and create disease.
Now, if you know that we can
turn on the stress response
just by thought alone, it
means, then, our thoughts
can make us sick.
So the question is if our
thoughts can make us sick,
can our thoughts make us well?
Because according to the
quantum model of reality,
all disease is a
lowering of frequency.
When you begin to
elevate your frequency,
your body becomes more
energy and less matter,
you become more wave
and less particle.
And you excite photons
into this state
where you begin to
broadcast new information.
So I think that
most people, then,
they try to create a
new personal reality
as the same personality.
And you can't do it.
>>REGINA: You can't do it.
>>DISPENZA: You literally
have to become somebody else.
So the new science of
neuroplasticity and epigenetics
says that we're not
hard-wired to be
a certain way the
rest of our lives.
And we're not
doomed by our genes,
that we're marvels of change.
But if you're thinking the
same thoughts-- I mean,
think about this.
The average person thinks
about 60,000 to 70,000 thoughts
in one day.
Out of those 60,000
to 70,000 thoughts--
and 90% of them are the same
thoughts as the day before--
>>REGINA: I know.
Isn't that just awful when you
think about the implications.
>>DISPENZA: So think about it.
Same thought leads
to the same choice.
Same choice creates
the same behavior.
Same behavior creates
the same experience.
The same experience
produces the same emotion.
And that same emotion
inspires the same thought.
And we call that a personality.
So by the time
we're 35 years old,
our biology becomes equal
to how we think, how we act,
and how we feel.
So we fire and wire the
same circuits in our brain.
They become hard-wired.
We execute the same behaviors.
We reaffirm those circuits.
Those behaviors create
the same experiences
that produce the same emotions.
And that becomes familiar to us.
So then, when a person has
to cross the river of change
from the old self to
the new self, the moment
they start making a change-- and
the hardest part about change
is not making the same
choice as you did the day
before-- all of a
sudden they don't
feel like themselves any longer.
You know what they do?
They return back
to the same choice
so they can feel the same
way because, God forbid,
they don't know who they are.
>>REGINA: That's what you say,
well that's just how I am.
You start living the
"that's just how I am"
kind of life, which
for most people
is not good enough for them.
I mean, most people would
say, well, if I could,
I would change a few things.
Very few people I
know of have life
nailed exactly the way
they want to have it wired.
>>DISPENZA: But don't
you think, though,
that most people
wait for crisis--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: --or trauma
or disease or diagnosis?
>>REGINA: Unfortunately,
that is the fate
of the human condition.
>>DISPENZA: We reach
our lowest denominator
to decide to change.
And my message is why wait?
You can learn and change in
a state of pain and suffering
or you can learn and change in
a state of joy and inspiration.
It's a choice, isn't it?
>>REGINA: I could
not agree more.
And what you were talking
about a moment ago,
you were-- So what
I'm understanding
here is that we
are now body-bound.
When we're in this lower
survival-kind-of-thought,
self-centered, just as a
reaction to survival itself,
then we're also cutting
ourselves off from
the possibility of reaching
into any of the higher,
finer aspects of mind.
And there was a model that
I found very useful once
upon a time about the
nature of matter and us.
And it was that if
you were to look
at our solar system and
the sun and the planets
as an atomic function, you
would have as much space
in every atom of
the body as you see
within our solar system, the
distance between the planets
and the sun.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: How can we
be anything but mind?
But space?
I mean, this is just
an illusion, isn't it?
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
And you know, it's interesting.
Because I think that
we view our life
through the lens of the
past, that the brain is
a reflection of
everything you've
experienced in your life.
So the brain is an
artifact from your past.
And emotions and feelings
are the end product
of past experiences.
And so people live by certain
emotions that define them.
Whether its suffering or
victimization or aggression
or anger or
judgment, that's kind
of the state of being that
they've become accustomed to.
So we could say, then,
the emotion, then,
becomes the lens that
they view reality through.
So then, if you're thinking
certain thoughts that
create certain feelings,
and those feelings
are driving the same
thoughts, then in a sense
you're conditioning your body
and mind to live in the past.
And you cannot create a
new future holding onto
the emotions of the past.
So this is where people
begin to look at themselves
for the first time and
say, are these thoughts
really serving me?
Are these behaviors and habits
that I'm demonstrating really
part of my future?
And are these emotions
affecting anybody else but me?
I'm pushing--
>>REGINA: It's your creation.
>>DISPENZA: --my own
genetic buttons, you know?
So you can blame the person.
You can blame the
condition in your past.
But in the end, you still
have to transmute that emotion
into wisdom, because a memory
without the emotional charge
is called wisdom.
And that's the name
of the game here.
So forget about the event,
just look at the emotion
that you're living by.
And look to see if that
emotion is part of your future.
And if it isn't, then you
have the choice to leave it,
because a wealthy person,
an abundant person,
would never think
lacking thoughts.
>>REGINA: You do have
the choice to leave it.
However, it's not as
though there might not
be a tad of resistance.
So can we talk about the
slave-master relationship
between the mind and the body?
Because we're talking
about some intelligences,
in and of themselves,
that also fight
to protect their own existence.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
So I think that,
you know, we were
talking about by the time we're
35 years old, 95% of who we are
is a set of memorized behaviors,
emotional reactions, beliefs,
perceptions, attitudes that run
just like a computer program.
You turn them on and
they run automatically.
So people get up in the morning.
They brush their teeth.
They take a shower.
They wash themselves in
the same routine way.
They drive to work.
They see the same
people that push
the same emotional buttons.
They do the same
things that they
memorized and can do so well.
For the most part, most people
are functioning unconsciously.
So now, if 95% of
who you are is that,
then you're using 5%
of your conscious mind
to go against the program
that's been memorized.
Now, a habit is when the
body becomes the mind.
So if you're thinking
certain thoughts
and those thoughts are
producing emotional reactions
and chemicals in your body,
and those chemicals drive
the same thoughts, and you
keep that loop going on and on,
you'll condition your body
to memorize, subconsciously,
lack, unworthiness, insecurity.
And it'll run without
your conscious mind.
So then, when you come time to
change and you begin to say,
I don't want to think
these thoughts any longer.
I don't want to be a victim.
I don't want to complain.
I don't want to make excuses.
I don't want to feel
sorry for myself.
I don't want to
judge anybody else,
and you're breaking
that chemical continuity
between the mind
and the body, well,
once the body becomes the mind,
the servant is the master.
And all of a sudden, the body
begins to-- just like anything
that you've trained,
it's the animal.
It's going to begin to send
signals back to the brain.
And it's going to say
things like, why don't you
start tomorrow, any
other day but today.
Today's not a good
day to change.
You're too much
like your mother.
You've tried this in the
past, it didn't work.
What's wrong with you?
This doesn't feel right.
And the moment we respond to
that voice as if it's true,
we return back to the same self,
thinking the same thoughts,
performing the same actions,
and living by the same emotions.
But crossing that
river of change,
then, means when you
become conscious that it's
your body trying to be the mind,
and it's giving it its best
effort to cause
you to return back
to the way you've
programmed it to be.
When you step out
into the unknown
and it feels uncomfortable
and it feels unfamiliar,
this is the best
place to create from,
because now the best way
to predict your future
is to create it
from the unknown.
Now, this is where
a person begins
to think about who they
want to be in their future.
They begin to imagine
what behaviors
they're going to demonstrate.
They begin to fall
in love with how
it's going to feel ahead
of the actual event.
And they begin to teach
their body emotionally
what it feels like to
live in that future.
And the body as the
unconscious mind
does not know the difference
between the actual event
in reality and the emotions they
are creating by thought alone.
And they're signalling
new genes in new ways.
And their brain and
body begin to look
like the experience
has already happened.
Now, when your brain
and body are physically
changed-- there's
physical evidence
to look like the event
has happened-- then
the event has already
happened in the quantum field.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: Now, this is where
you get to relax and allow
the universe to organize it
in a way that's right for you,
that you least expect.
Why would it have to be
that we least expect?
Because if you can expect
it, it's nothing new.
It's got to rock your world.
It's got to catch you off
guard and leave no doubt
that what you did inside
of you produced some result
outside of you.
>>REGINA: You're talking
about letting go of control.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
When we're living by
the hormones of stress
and survival, we'll always
try to control the outcome
and force the outcome,
because we feel separate
from possibility.
We're matter not energy.
When we really move into
the state of creation
and the survival emotions
that are normally
endorsing these hormonal centers
is moving into your heart,
because the identity is
gone, the ego is gone,
the energy has to
move somewhere.
The first place it moves
is into your heart.
And you begin to fall in
love with your creation.
The moment that
happens, now, you
begin to free the
body from the chains
of its emotional addiction.
And it's no longer
living in the past.
And that liberation of
energy is what we call joy.
When that happens, you
trust in the outcome.
You don't know how
it's going to happen
or when it's going to happen,
but it's not your job,
because now, you're
going to allow a greater
intelligence to
organize it for you.
This is the difficult part
because trusting means, then,
it's already happened.
And you're going to live as if
your prayer's already answered.
>>REGINA: And when
normally you're waiting to
have some kind of validation.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
And the moment you
start to analyze
where it's going to come and
when it's going to come--
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>DISPENZA: --you just
return back to the old self.
>>REGINA: The magic goes away.
>>DISPENZA: You just return
back to the old self.
The new self would
never think that way.
They're too busy being it.
So then, this is where
your friends start to say,
are you on a new medication?
Or what's up with you?
Because you're exuberant.
But if you're creating
a future, and you
move into an elegant
state of creation,
and your heart is
open-- and the research
shows that the field
around the body,
when you start
opening your heart,
goes to nine meters wide.
You become more energy
and less particle.
You're broadcasting a whole
new electromagnetic signature
into the field.
Then, you get up and you're in
a state of reverence and joy
and then, 15 minutes later,
you're driving down the freeway
and flipping everybody off and
cursing and judging everybody.
You just returned back
to the old identity.
You have to maintain
that modified
state of mind and body.
That's the purpose
of all of this.
Because it would be like
eating an organic breakfast
with vegetarian
breakfast and food
combining properly
and then spending
the rest of the day
eating junk food.
To be able to maintain that
modified state of mind and body
is really the task.
>>REGINA: It is the task.
It's where the
commitment comes in.
>>DISPENZA: That's
where greatness is born.
So meditation, then, is to
alter your state of being
and then sustain that
change the entire day.
That's the test.
And the one day is one lifetime.
That you are able
to master that day,
then, begins to allow you
to leave your past behind
and create a new future.
>>REGINA: Even just
starting with an hour,
to just watch your own
thoughts for as much as an hour
and see where the
habitual nature comes in.
I think most people, if you
make a study of yourself,
would be absolutely shocked
and sometimes appalled
to think of how unoriginal
our thoughts are day-to-day.
>>DISPENZA: Well, people
always ask me, well,
how did I create this disease?
Or how did I create
this accident?
I always say, you created
that accident by not creating.
I mean, we are left to
the randomness of reality.
But if you want to look
at how the disease may
have been created, close
your eyes for an hour
and watch your thoughts.
Watch your urges, your emotions.
And it's that state
of being-- it's
the same information
to the cell.
There's no new experience
that's signaling any new genes.
And so, if you keep pushing
the same genetic button,
the gene begins to wear out
and starts to malfunction.
Give the body new
information, and it
begins to respond to a new mind.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now this brings us to some
really interesting stuff
you've been up to lately.
About three or
four months ago, I
interviewed Jeffrey Fannin,
neuroscientist, years ago,
Konstantin Korotkov.
And both of them are up to
some very interesting work.
And you brought them
together with yourself
to start looking--
well, you tell us
what you began doing in
this experimentation.
Because the results
are really fascinating.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
When I wrote my first
book, "Evolve your Brain,"
the book was about spontaneous
remissions of disease.
So I went to 17
different countries
and studied people all
over the world that
were diagnosed with
health conditions.
And they were treating
conventionally or
unconventionally.
And they were staying the
same or getting worse.
And all of a sudden,
they got better.
So I wanted to know
what the cause was
that produced that effect.
So we found four common
things that they had.
And that was what
the book was about.
And then we did
"What the Bleep."
And then, afterwards,
people start saying, well,
that's really great information.
How do you do it?
So we started teaching workshops
around the world and really
teaching people the
how to process--
that's what the second book is
about, "Breaking the Habit"--
to demystify the mystical so
that you begin to understand
how to do it.
Well, people came to events and
more events and more events.
And then, they kept wanting
more and more and more.
And we started having
more advanced workshops.
And then, the last workshop
we did in Colorado here,
last spring, we had
seven people that
had spontaneous
remissions from disease.
>>REGINA: During the conference?
>>DISPENZA: During
the conference, yeah.
So these were
quantifiable remissions.
They were signaling
new genes in new ways,
people that had MS, that
couldn't feel their leg
or couldn't walk were having
complete function in their leg.
We had people with celiac's
disease completely go away;
chronic bladder infections
their entire life,
complete remission;
a Hashimoto syndrome.
I mean, we had all kinds
of significant changes.
And so, you know I'm a
scientist in my mind.
And I thought, well,
we're teaching people.
We should be able
to reproduce this.
And we're reproducing it now.
And now that we
can measure and see
that subjective mind is
producing an objective effect,
let's find out what's
going on in real time.
So we had a workshop
in Phoenix last month,
200 folks-- these are advanced
students in the meditations--
and we brought in Dr. Jeffrey
Fannin and Dr. Konstantin
Korotkov.
And I wanted to be able to
measure real-time changes
in folks that were going
through transformations.
>>REGINA: And so, Jeffrey is
working with neuro-feedback,
a sophisticated type of
neuro-feedback device.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, he's using
QEEGs or electroencephalograms.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: And Konstantin is
measuring energetic patterns,
energetic changes in
the space of the room--
>>REGINA: Amazing technology.
>>DISPENZA: --energentic
patterns and changes
around the field
around the body,
and the alignment of the
energy centers in the body.
And within the first
day, these guys
were blown away by the
changes that they saw.
By the end of the
event, we were capturing
some brainwave patterns and
some energetic patterns that
were really, really
quite spectacular.
So we're in the process of
crunching those numbers.
We're in the process of
looking at the effects.
But again, the concept was
information to transformation.
>>REGINA: Yes.
How masterful were
the people that
were involved, in terms of
their meditation skills?
Because it's really down to
these states of consciousness.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
There were folks that were doing
some pretty amazing things,
really, really
spectacular stuff.
For example, we were watching
one woman in her meditation
and, all of a sudden, she went
into a very, very elevated
state of gamma brain
waves, which usually
happens with
super-consciousness.
>>REGINA: Right, monks.
>>DISPENZA: But
at the same time,
she was having all of this
extended delta and theta.
And we knew that she was going
into bliss in that moment.
And we turned and
looked over at her.
And the next thing
you know, she just
started sobbing from
joy in the next moment.
And the brain was in
such a level of coherence
that phase patterns
were so organized,
there was such a whole
functioning of the brain--
>>REGINA: You would
normally not see that--
>>DISPENZA: You don't
see that too often.
>>REGINA: --gamma, alpha, and
delta working at the same time,
right?
>>DISPENZA: We were seeing it in
lot of folks by the third day.
And the best part
about it is they
didn't have to be
Buddhist monk to do it.
They just had to retreat from
their life for four days;
surrender the emotions and
states of mind and body
of the past; spend the second
day finding the present moment,
which is difficult
for a lot of people--
but when you find that sweet
spot of the present moment,
that's where all possibilities
exist-- and then,
move into a new state of
being and create a new future.
And boy, the energy
of the room--
I looked back at this
strip-chart that we were
measuring fluctuations in the
field during the event and--
>>REGINA: Konstantin's
technology.
>>DISPENZA: Konstantin's
technology--
measuring the energy of
the space of the room.
And when we got
to that third day,
I glanced down at the
strip-chart analyzer.
And it went like
this, "whissch."
It went up like a volcano.
And I thought, oh my god,
it's really happening.
So we're doing this,
really, to close
the gap between science
and spirituality.
If transformation is
happening and we're
seeing biological
effects, then there
should be something
happening in real-time
that we should be
able to measure.
And we're starting to measure
that and energetic changes
in people's field and energetic
alignments in their energy
centers or chakras.
We saw dramatic shifts in that.
So this process was just
a hypothesis for me.
Because I figured,
what the heck.
I mean, we're
getting the results.
We're seeing medical feedback
from scans and blood tests,
et cetera, et cetera.
We get emails and, of course,
the first line in every email
is, you're not going to
believe this, which we love.
We know the evidence
is coming next.
So because of
that, we want to be
able to show that there's
coherence going on
in the brain, that both
hemispheres are firing
in unison, that there is phased
synchronization going on,
the amplitudes are
healthy, and the brain
is working in a different
ratio between our thinking
brain and our
subconscious brain.
And these people
were, without a doubt,
really, really doing
some amazing things.
>>REGINA: Well, this
makes total sense.
I did an interview
with Patrick Flanagan.
And we talked a little bit about
his device, the Neurophone,
which is to, essentially, allow
for-- through technology--
this quickened communication
signaling between the right
and left hemisphere
of the brain.
And I was asking
him, well, what are
some of the effects of that?
And he was talking about
the sharpness of the mind IQ
but, also, immune
system function.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: That if
you have coherence
between the right
and left hemispheres,
your body can start responding
to that almost instantly.
>>DISPENZA: Well, it's very
interesting that you say that.
Because if we go back
to the original question
that when we're
living in survival
and you're throwing out all
of this energy for some threat
in your external environment,
real or imagined,
you have very little energy
in your internal environment
for growth and repair, for
long-term building projects.
>>REGINA: Well, and isn't that
just engaging, more or less,
one hemisphere of the brain
when you're in survival?
You're not crossing
over too much there
into the creative side.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, the
bridge between two
hemispheres-- the
hormones of stress
slow down conductivity
between both hemispheres.
We tend to lateralize to
one side or the other.
Now, my current
theory about love,
that psychic union
that transcends words,
is when you have a
union of polarity,
when both hemispheres
are no longer judging
good and bad, right and
wrong, positive and negative,
male and female,
past and future.
When both brains begin
to work in coherence,
and you see this kind
of orderliness that's
going on between
both hemispheres,
that type of psychic
orderliness or coherence
is the union of those
two specific things.
And the brain is functioning
in a state of wholeness.
And the only thing you could say
is you feel whole and complete.
And all the things that
you thought you wanted,
you no longer want.
Because in order
for you to want,
you would have to
be polarized again.
It's the most familiar
unfamiliar feeling.
>>REGINA: I understand
what you're saying.
I mean, but then
again, that's what
you experience in these
higher states of meditation.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
So what we want to
do is elongate them
into a state of being.
We want people to be
able to open their eyes
and be able to have this level
of unconditional state of joy
inside of them that they
no longer need the sports
car or the boat or the
gambling to try to create
a change in their
feeling by using
something outside of them.
And that really is when true
joy and happiness is created.
And we started
seeing some of that.
>>REGINA: And as you
say, spontaneous healing.
>>DISPENZA: Spontaneous
healing happens as a result.
Because the disease actually
exists in the old personality.
It doesn't exist in
the new personality.
The person is
literally, chemically,
neurologically, and
genetically somebody else.
And they don't have to visualize
the cancer falling off.
They don't have to--
>>REGINA: You just
have to elevate
your state of
consciousness to coherence.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
And now, those elevated emotions
of gratitude and joy and love,
those are the natural human
states of consciousness.
The survival states are altered
We've just been hypnotized
into believing the opposite.
And we've been
hypnotized into believing
that you need a reason
for joy, that you
need a reason to give thanks.
That's the Newtonian model of
reality, of cause and effect.
Wait for something
outside of you
to change how you
feel inside of you.
And when you feel
differently inside of you,
you pay attention to who
caused it outside of you.
That's how we associate
with our environment.
That's cause and effect.
The quantum model of
reality is the opposite.
It's about causing an effect.
It's changing how
you think and feel
and giving thanks ahead
of the actual event,
so much so that your body
as the unconscious mind
begins to believe the
event has already happened.
Because the emotional
signature of gratitude means
it's already happened or
it is happening to you.
And the moment you get to
that level of gratitude--
true gratitude, not an
intellectual process,
but you begin to
feel it-- your body
does not know the difference.
And you're literally switching
on new genes in new ways.
And you begin to know certain
things about who you're being.
And those elevated emotions then
carry a different frequency.
And you become more energy,
more mind, less matter.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about some of the ways
in which we have been
reinforced to be how we are.
Because toward the
end of our chat,
I'd like to get into some of
the basics of what you do.
And one of them-- I love
this-- is how do you
release frozen energy
into the quantum field?
We're going to spend the last
portion of the show on maybe
even some-- you can share
some techniques with us--
>>DISPENZA: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: --I'm sure,
without-- really, people
need to come to a
course or read the book.
It's a lot of information there.
But to understand the nature of
how we got into this situation
in part, let's look at it
from a mass consciousness
point of view.
Now we're looking at mass
beliefs as a culture.
We're looking at mass
media, mass-- kind
of a hypnagogic state
that we're put into.
What you're talking
about, seems to me,
would almost require us
to literally disconnect
from the messages at large.
Let's talk about cultures,
caste systems, and so forth.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
Well, you know,
culture is really
the reflection of
how people survive
in a certain
environmental condition.
And so, different people in
different parts of the world
have different cultures
based on the food they grow,
whether they're near water,
their altitude, how they
commingle, et cetera, et cetera.
The 21st century
and the 20th century
has been the indoctrination
into this belief
that we need something
outside of us to make us happy
and that the events
that have occurred
over the last
couple hundred years
are still alive in a
lot of cultures' minds.
And those beliefs, some of
them support the evolution
of a culture.
And others really restrict
the expansion of a culture.
And a belief is
just a thought you
keep thinking over
and over again.
That's it.
And so, if you have a belief
that germs make you sick,
if you have a belief that
women are less than men,
if you have a belief
that spirituality looks
a certain way, and you
conform to those beliefs,
they limit the
flow of the Divine
through individuals
because it separates them
from their true nature.
And independent of a person's
culture, their tradition,
their religion, their
gender, their social status,
their race-- that there's
an intelligence that's
giving them life.
That divine intelligence
transcends all of those things.
So this is a time in history
where all of those separate
"-isms" are beginning to
collapse, the political model,
the economic model,
the educational model--
>>REGINA: Scientific models.
>>DISPENZA: --scientific
models, the religious model,
the environment.
You know, you're starting
to see a collapse
of these so-called structures
because information
is so readily available.
And so, because you
can research anything
now-- I used to have
to go to the library
and pull these massive books off
the shelf, and sit in a room,
and fumble through
all these pages.
And you could-- at
your very fingertips--
Look at the medical model.
25 years ago, you were
diagnosed with a condition,
the doctor told you you
needed this procedure,
you signed on the dotted
line, and it was over.
Fast forward to today.
The doctor tells you
you have a condition.
You go on the internet
for the next two days
and you research it better.
And you know more about that
condition than your doctor.
And you say to your doctor, I
want to try this new procedure.
And the doctor says, well, I
don't know anything about that.
Or that's not going to work.
And you say, really?
Time to find a new doctor.
Because people
are now wanting to
empower themselves
with information.
So, classic time in history
because the traditional models
that are based on
the past have nothing
to do with a new future.
And so, waking up to
this time, right now,
is really saying to
every individual,
if you want peace in the
world, you better not
be arguing with your
neighbor, because you
have to demonstrate peace
everywhere in your life.
If you have a problem
with war or the government
taking things, start giving.
You have to demonstrate
all of that.
And when you do, you
give people permission
to do the same in their lives.
So because of
globalization, there's
a collapse going on in a lot
of these social structures
and really giving
people permission
to step outside of them.
And I think it's a really
healthy time to be alive.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
it's fascinating.
I look at this, where
you have stuck scenarios
like the Hatfields and McCoys.
And another one that is very
controversial to even bring up,
which is the notion of what
happens in the Holocaust,
for example, where the
theme is "never forget."
What happens?
What kind of pain is perpetuated
if a group of people,
or a family, or an individual
has been through something
extraordinarily
traumatic and painful.
And yet, chooses to
commit to keeping
that very memory alive through
repetition, repeating stories,
and so forth?
What does that do?
>>DISPENZA: Well,
I'll speak about it
from a biological
standpoint, which
is the safest
scientific standpoint.
Memories are just thoughts
that stay in the brain.
And if you keep firing and
wiring the same circuits,
you begin to cause
long-term relationships.
Learning is making
new connections.
Remembering is maintaining them.
So then, if we keep
the same level of mind
going every single day,
then our brain literally
is keeping those
circuits in place.
Now, there's nothing wrong with
remembering the experience.
But if you can
remember the experience
without the emotional charge--
>>REGINA: Oh, see, now
that's the key, isn't it?
>>DISPENZA: --then you are
free from the experience.
Look at Nelson Mandela.
One of my heroes.
>>REGINA: [COUGH]
Yes, perfect example.
>>DISPENZA: And
why do I love him?
27 years in prison, OK?
First 10 years of
his life, he hated.
He was angry.
And he said to
himself every day,
I'm never going to
get out of here.
He kept thinking it, I'm never
going to get out of here.
>>REGINA: You can just feel
the poisonous chemicals
coming into the body and brain.
>>DISPENZA: And he
did it for 10 years.
And finally, he paused.
And he said, what if I
could get out of here?
What if I could get out of here?
And he started thinking
the "what if" question.
Now, he was stepping
outside of his environment
and his culture.
And he was willing
to make a difference.
So he starts
thinking about, what
could I do to get out of here?
All of a sudden, he
thinks, he gets this idea,
I'm going to start writing
letters to the United States.
So every week he wrote
letters and wrote more letters
on apartheid and,
finally, he started
gaining a lot of
political attention.
And then, he was standing
outside of his cell one day,
and he thought, who's
going to lead this nation?
And of course, the
next thought is,
I wonder if I could
lead this nation?
Now, here's the key point.
He said, what would I have
to change about myself
to be a leader of this nation?
Now this--
>>REGINA: That's
a profound and--
>>DISPENZA: --is where you've
got to leave bitterness behind.
You have to leave betrayal
and hatred behind.
You have to leave anger and
judgment, prejudice, holding
grudges-- In 27 years
in the crucible,
he took base metals,
those survival emotions,
and turned them into gold.
And because he transmuted
those emotions,
there isn't an ounce of
malice in that man's body.
He gets to lead a nation.
So then, we're defined
by our adversity.
And when we can
look at the emotion
and really realize
that that emotion is
the residue from the past,
then when we begin to say,
this emotion, then, and these
behaviors and these habits
and these attitudes don't
belong to the ideal self
in the future, and you begin
to observe them-- look,
this concept in neuroscience
called meta-cognition, the fact
that we can think about
what we're thinking about,
to notice how we're acting.
>>REGINA: That self-recognition.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, we can pay
attention and become conscious
of our unconscious behaviors.
It means we can modify
our states of being
to do a better job in life.
That's how we learn.
It's because of the
size of the fore-brain
and the frontal lobes.
So the fact that you're
observing the self
means that you're no
longer the program.
But you're the consciousness
observing the program.
That's when you begin to
objectify the subjective self.
This is when you begin to
detach from the programs.
And that's the first
step to change.
>>REGINA: Beautiful.
OK, I want to talk
about another area
that I think most people
in Western culture--
and probably globally--
now struggle with.
And that is, life has
been, so to speak, wired.
And part of it because
of survival issues,
basic day-to-day
stuff you talked
about in the first
minute of the show.
We are stuck in this high
beta or this beta state.
And basically, we're
just grinding, grinding,
grinding in this beta
state, which really
is the antithesis of going
into the flow of the other part
of their true mind.
>>DISPENZA: I'm so glad you
realize that, because this
is the paradigm where
people get stuck.
If you're analyzing your
life within the emotions
that you've memorized
based on survival,
you're firing and
wiring the circuits
and driving your brain into a
higher, more analytical state
and away from the
operating system where
true change takes place.
Now--
>>REGINA: But we pride
ourselves in the West
on this high beta state.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah,
and how's it working?
>>REGINA: Yeah!
It's not working
too well, is it?
>>REGINA: More pharmaceuticals--
>>REGINA: Talk about
high beta, what
it is, what happens
chemically, and how
we end up in this space.
>>DISPENZA: So, when we're
under the fight or flight
nervous system, we have to
get a super rush of energy.
And the brain has to
become super alert.
And we have to
become super vigilant
because there's an emergency.
We're now in high gear.
Now, you have three
levels of beta.
You have low-level beta.
Right now, you and I pretty
much are in low-level beta.
If I said to you,
listen, I'm going
to test you on all
of this material.
And if you don't pass the
test, you can't leave tonight.
You may move into a
little mid-range beta.
Well, high-range beta
is, like, twice as high
as mid-range beta.
And that's when you're freaked
out, when you're scared,
when you're angry,
when you're frustrated.
And in high-range beta, it's
like driving your sports car
in first gear.
And the brain begins
to break down.
And the patterns that you
see on EEG readings become
very incoherent,
disorganized, disintegrated.
>>REGINA: Yes, in your
book, I love the graphs
you have on that,
very interesting.
>>DISPENZA: So in high beta,
you believe that the outer world
is more real than
the inner world.
And in high beta, your
brain is running a loop,
and you're overly
analyzing your problems.
And the analysis is causing
the emotions to be reinforced.
And when you begin to
realize that in order
for you to change,
your brain has
to move from beta to
alpha-- and in alpha,
the inner world starts to become
more real than the outer world.
If you're addicted
to those emotions,
no new information can come
into the nervous system--
>>REGINA: It's like a wall.
>>DISPENZA: --that is
not equal to the emotion.
And that's why, when
people get in this state,
they get lost, because
they can't hear it
because it's not
a time to learn.
It's not a time for
new information.
It's a time to
react and survive.
So when the emotions
get highly addictive
and the brain moves
in this pattern,
people are trying
to force the outcome
and use the ego to
change their life.
Now, moving into
meditative states
is moving into
those alpha states
where you begin to
eliminate the information
from the external environment.
When you begin to
slip back into alpha,
your thinking brain
quiets way down.
Now, people do
this all the time.
They don't know they do it.
When you're driving
down the road
in your car and all of sudden--
>>REGINA: --somewhere
just above delta!
>>DISPENZA: Well,
you're trancing out.
And you're thinking
about something.
And you're not
aware of your body.
You don't see the road or
the environment of the--
>>REGINA: You've
lost track of time.
>>DISPENZA: You've
Your brain moves
from beta to alpha.
We could say that,
in that moment,
the inner world became more
real than the outer world,
the imaginary world became more
real than the external world.
Now, if you're in high
beta, that never happens.
Because the brain doesn't pause
enough to store information.
>>REGINA: You know, it's
funny because you'll
see at conferences,
spiritual conferences,
you'll see different
kinds of personalities.
Everybody's there
for their own reason.
But I've always wondered
about individuals
when you see them just
taking notes, detailed notes,
and using the analytical
process so much.
I always wonder, is
anything actually coming in?
Now, maybe it's just a
process for some minds' need
to hold on and analyze and
record to maybe take it
in later on.
But it almost seems like
it's blocking the experience.
>>DISPENZA: You know, knowledge
is the precursor to experience.
The more knowledge
you have, you're
more prepared for
the experience.
And I think that when you go
to these conferences-- and this
is why I've kind of stopped
doing a lot of the conferences
and keynotes, because
it's philosophy.
Until you initiate
that philosophy,
until you initiate
it and practice it
does it become truth or wisdom.
So if people need to write that
stuff down and ideo-motorwise
create some circuits
in their brain,
and that's how they pay
attention, then go for it.
But don't sit there and
analyze the information.
Take the information and
ask this simple question:
how can I use this in my life?
Now, once you start
applying it, you just
went from the philosopher
to the initiate.
And if you can
reproduce an experience
based on the knowledge you
learn over and over again,
now you're beginning to
master that knowledge.
You go from knowing all
the way to knowingness.
You know to knowing
to knowingness.
And when you get to that
point of knowingness,
where you know that you
know, or you know how,
but you've done it
so many times you
don't even know how you know
how, it's now innate in you.
It's who you are.
And that's where we
need to go as a culture.
We need to, all
of a sudden, break
from these
philosophical arguments.
I mean, that's why we're
doing the workshops,
because we're all about,
really-- it's a time in history
not just to learn information.
It's a time in history,
really, to learn
how to use that information.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And yet at the same time,
going back the other direction
again-- because I'm just trying
to cover all the influences
that we're under so we can
recognize them and break that
spell-- the media
takes advantage
of these frantic,
survival-oriented, high beta
states of mind and
further reinforces them.
And you and I, in our
last conversation,
spoke a little bit about that.
But mostly we were talking
about the effects in that area
of what happens when
children start becoming --
I was going to say
addicted, that's not it--
entrained to video
games, for example.
Now, this gets into
ethical, moral things.
We get into, now, the drones and
the drone issue and the people
that operate them.
So in a short bit--
because then I
want to get into some of what
you do in your workshops--
how do we address this mass
kind of enslavement, entrainment
by media and video games?
>>DISPENZA: Mmm.
If you took one hour of your day
and retreated from your life,
truly shut off your cell phone,
powered down the computer,
you got up at 5:00
in the morning
or whatever time is good
for you before your day,
when your brain is
already in alpha
and the brain chemistry
is just right to dream,
and you sat down
and you said, what
is the greatest ideal
of myself that I
want to present to
the world today?
And you sat there and you
changed your state of being,
you worked until you
were that person,
you would have to forget
about the people in your life,
the things that you
have to do, the things
you own, the places you have
to go at different times,
and all the experiences
in your life
that reaffirm your identity.
You would have to get beyond
yourself in that moment.
And when you become conscious
of your unconscious self,
you are less likely
to be controlled
because you are no longer
being manipulated emotionally.
So you can manipulate
people with fear.
You can manipulate
people with need.
people with lack.
You can cause people
to consume because they
don't look a certain way.
And so this indoctrination
into this idea
that you can rely on
something outside of you
to make you feel
better is the exact way
you control a culture.
When you begin to transmute
those survival emotions
into elevated states, and
the joy and the love for life
is within you,
you're more awake.
And when everybody's
looking one way,
you're looking the other way.
And you're no longer
manipulated by fear.
I mean, I went to an
event in Santiago.
There was 1,000
people in my audience
and half the people were wearing
masks because of the avian flu.
And I just said, you cannot
believe that to be the truth.
It's just not that way.
So you produce something
in the marketplace
that creates a little
fear, that people
think they have free will.
They don't have free will.
You think, oh, I'm
going to choose
Bayer instead of Excedrin.
That's not free will.
That's making choices
based on knowns.
Free-willed
individuals, genius, is
someone who steps
outside of convention
and who's willing to stay
until they produce an effect.
And they go from being
foolhardy and insane to becoming
a mystic or a saint.
But there's enough
people in this world now
that are beginning
to wake up and see
through the deceit and the
greed and the competition
that that is not
the model that's
going to sustain a culture,
because no organisms in nature
survive in competition.
They survive when they cooperate
and they worked together.
It's a time, this is
a nodal point for us
to begin to wake up.
And so, back to
the original idea,
we have to demonstrate that
in every area of our life.
And if you're changing
you, and I'm changing me,
and I'm giving up
resentment and hatred,
and you're giving up
jealousy and envy,
and it's no longer in
the fabric of your being,
and people are
noticing those changes,
imagine the effects
it has in the world.
We're not waiting for a
Gandhi or a Martin Luther King
or a Joan of Arc.
This is the time when you
and I and the simple person
has to be able to
demonstrate it.
And science is the language
to really demystify it.
And that's what unifies
the culture and tradition
and religion.
Because the moment you start
talking about tradition
or culture or
religion, you begin
to separate your audience.
Science has become the
contemporary language.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And if you can take
just one minute or so
and address the-- and again,
I would recommend watching,
and I'll mention that again
later, our first interview.
You went into some great
depth on the subject
of how the brain is entrained,
how the cell memory is
entrained, when you're
getting your kicks,
you have to keep pushing
and pushing the envelope.
We didn't get to that today.
But we did talk
about it last time,
and video games and little kids.
What would you say
to moms and dads?
>>DISPENZA: Well, listen,
I mean in my house
with my kids were growing
up, here's the rule,
we had five seconds.
If I asked you a question
and you couldn't respond
in five seconds, then
you were addicted.
Game over.
But when you're
killing somebody,
you're shooting somebody,
you're blowing somebody up
or whatever it is, there's
a release of dopamine
in the brain.
It's a pleasure chemical.
And when you squirt out all that
chemistry and norepinephrine,
when you keep doing
it, the receptor sites
on the outside of the
cells become desensitized.
So the next time you play,
they need a little bit more
to turn them on.
And so, the pleasure
centers in the brain
start recalibrating
to a higher level.
And now, you're addicted,
because you cannot get the same
rush as you did the day before.
Now, think about this.
This is a tragedy because, in
the absence of that chemicals
rush, they can't find
pleasure in anything.
You say, go watch a sunset or
let's go see your grandmother
or let's go take
the dog for a walk.
Well, they just murdered
a whole civilization
in their video game.
They're not going to find
any pleasure in that.
Now, learning should be a
reward in and of itself.
And the children now can't
find pleasure in learning,
and they have to wake their
brain up just to turn it on.
They're going to act
out and get in trouble.
And we have a culture
now that's based on,
when they get older and
have problems in their life,
instead of facing off
with the problems--
>>REGINA: What do
you fall back on?
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, they're
going to look for something
to make those feelings go away.
>>REGINA: And this is
true of adults as well.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: Anyone that gets
into any addictive behavior,
the addiction itself is a
result of that body-bound aspect
of consciousness having to
keep upping the ante and stakes
chemically to be able to feel.
>>DISPENZA: Sure, and
you become more matter.
And then, if you try
to change yourself,
if the ego tries to
change the ego functioning
as more matter and less
consciousness or less energy,
then it always
becomes impossible
because they can't
get beyond the program
in order to do that.
And in our workshop when we
were studying the first day,
where people were going back
into their past and observing
themselves, you know, lighting
the match in a dark place--
it's important to do that--
we saw just high-level beta
patterns in the brain
and people were--
>>REGINA: --freaking out.
Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: They
were going for it!
But they were able to
really, really transmute that
into something else.
But the message was, that state
is how you function every day.
And you try to change
you when you're
a biological machine
running as a program
and you're not the consciousness
operating the brain and body,
then you can't change it.
And you'll just be left
to the genetic program.
>>REGINA: It's
absolutely fascinating.
And again, I mean, you
have a couple books,
and also in our
previous conversation
you went into it
at length-- now,
you just mentioned something.
These people would go
into the beta state
when they're having to light
a match in a dark place-- we
talked about this
a little bit ago--
how does one begin the
process of releasing
that frozen energy,
as you call it?
>>DISPENZA: Well, emotions
are energy in motion.
And if you're experiencing the
same emotion as the day before,
then your energy is the
same as the day before.
And as long as your energy is
the same as the day before,
everything's going to stay
the same in your life.
>>REGINA: So that's
your frozen energy.
>>DISPENZA: That's
>>REGINA: Now, we
want get rid of that.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
So, if you were to
close your eyes, right?
Or, better yet, let's
start off with something
a little simpler.
You write down an
emotion, let's just
say anger or, more, hatred.
That emotion is connected
to some person or something
or some experience in your past.
And you are energetically
bound to that past event.
So when you begin to
look, that this emotion
that I'm having is
keeping me connected
to this past experience,
and you begin
to become conscious of how you
think when you feel that way.
Just write down how you
Begin to notice
how you behave when
you're living by that emotion.
And you begin to
observe yourself.
You will begin to denature that
particular biological state.
And the more you become
familiar with it--
and the word
"meditation" literally
means to become
familiar with-- the more
you become conscious
of, it means then you
are transmuting those
emotions, freeing them
from the mind of the body.
And people would
say, well, I don't
want to think about how I
think when I'm that way.
Well, everybody else
can see you, you know.
You look at yourself through
the eyes of somebody else.
So the observation
process is the key.
We ask people,
then, once they're
clear on who they're
being, to surrender
that state of being
to a greater mind.
It will resolve it in a
way that's right for you.
And the true side effect
of doing that properly
is the elevated emotion of joy.
And so, the process
of surrender then,
is giving it up to a greater
authority, to a greater
consciousness, to the field.
But you have to first
really know thyself
in order to do that.
So we spend the process of
the thoughts and the behaviors
and the emotions that really
are connected to the old self
to be able to become
so conscious of them
that they would never slip
by your awareness unnoticed.
>>REGINA: Now, this is sort
of a beginning point when
you're looking--
>>DISPENZA: --beginning
point, yeah.
>>REGINA: That's huge.
>>DISPENZA: We
have of advanced--
>>REGINA: That's kind of
the heavy lifting too.
>>DISPENZA: That's
the heavy lifting.
And we see people
struggle with that
because they don't want to look.
>>REGINA: Let's look at
what happens after that.
So we've gotten through
this part of it.
>>DISPENZA: Mm-hmm.
So what we know
from our research
is that when people
really free themselves
from those emotional states--
because the question is, have
you ever done that
to anybody else?
The answer is yes, then it's
time to come to the altar
and free them and free you.
So once you begin to
surrender the past,
the body naturally starts to
relax into the present moment.
When your mind and body slip
into the present moment,
you will forget
about time and space.
And we have all the biological
machinery to do that.
In that mystical
moment of where you
are nobody, no thing,
no time, the brain
naturally recalibrates.
It begins to become
very organized.
And what we know
from our research
is when you focus on
nothing-- that's it,
when you focus on
nothing, you focus
on the wave instead
of the particle,
you focus on energy
instead of matter,
the brain naturally goes from
that disintegrated, incoherent,
imbalanced, stress
state, high beta state
to a more orderly, a more
phase-synchronized, a more
patterned, coherent
states of the brain.
And that's when the different
compartments of the brain that
weren't talking to each other,
that were driven by the stress
hormones, begin to shake hands.
They begin to connect.
And you start feeling
more like yourself
than you've felt in a long time.
And that coherent signature is
sending a very coherent message
to the nervous system.
And the immune
system gets rebooted.
The digestive system
comes back online.
The cardiovascular system
starts working in harmony
with the brain.
You start seeing rhythmic
harmonies and patterns.
Now, that place is not the end.
That's the place that you have
to become relaxed and poised
in.
And you have to begin to
allow the brain and body
to become familiar
with that state.
Now you're in fertile ground.
Now it's time to create.
Now, from that
place of wholeness
or that place of
orderliness, when
you begin to command
matter in your life--
because you're the
quantum observer.
You can't command matter as
your jealous, insecure, fearful
self.
>>REGINA: Very true.
>>DISPENZA: You have to command
matter with the same attributes
as the observer that's
created all of this,
in a loving, intelligent place,
in the state of gratitude,
in a state of commitment,
in a state of will.
And we've seen people in a
very short amount of time
do amazing things to their
body and in their life
by commanding matter from
an elegant state of being.
>>REGINA: I like that, from
This is just an
aside, but did you
measure people going
through that process?
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, oh absolutely.
>>REGINA: Going through that
letting go process and watch
that burst through of letting
go of that fear and high beta
and hatred and giving way--
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You watched it?
>>DISPENZA: We watched
transformation.
It was clinically and
statistically significant.
And we'll have all the research.
We'll publish the research.
But the beauty behind
it all was that these
were common folks
like you and me.
>>REGINA: No, I love this.
OK, we have only a
couple minutes left.
So now we've talked
about the fertile ground.
And again, I'm saying people
need to either connect
with your book-- you need to
make a commitment to this.
We can't talk about
the entire solution
in the next few minutes
or even the first hour.
So let's talk about, in
brief, thumbnail sketch,
where do you go from there and
what is the shining outcome?
>>DISPENZA: Well, for
me, I'm the happiest
when I'm contributing.
And when I measure
transformation
or see transformation,
whether I'm in Japan or China
or in Mexico or the United
States or Canada or London,
transformation looks the
same on every person.
And so, for me, demystifying
this concept of transformation.
We don't need anything
outside of us to do it.
We have within our reach all the
tools and biological machinery
to do it, and to make it so
reproducible and so simplified
that the person begins to
realize that they've always
had it within them.
They just forgot.
Look, you and I have done
amazing things in our life.
We just haven't made it a skill.
And making it a skill, the
hardest part of all of this,
is making the time to do it.
That's it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And in your book, you talk
about how here you were.
You were off lecturing
here and there.
But you didn't have
time to even practice
what you were talking about.
And you have turned
yourself around.
You look fabulous.
You've made all kinds of new,
fresh commitments to yourself.
And, I mean, just from
the last time I saw you,
you seem, just, more coherent.
>>DISPENZA: Thank you!
>>REGINA: You must have been in
the blush of "What the Bleep"
at that time.
I want to thank you so
much for taking the time.
And hopefully, we'll do this
again in a couple months.
>>DISPENZA: I go
wherever I'm invited.
>>REGINA: Very good.
Thank you.
Well, Dr. Joe was right to
write this follow up book,
"Breaking the Habit
of Being Yourself,"
because it's right on
target in its usefulness.
You can find it at Amazon
and other booksellers.
Meanwhile, you
might also enjoy--
as I mentioned before--
my first interview
with Dr. Joe in that Conscious
Media Library on this site.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]